Here's a use case that may help you envision the benefits of serverless applications,
conserving, compute, and performing efficiently.
In today's hyper-connected and hyper-vigilant world,
many people want a camera watching over their homes and property,
and I can understand why.
Images provide context, early warnings, and sometimes reassurance.
Imagine a camera pointed at an object to
see if someone would come and disturb the object in the middle of the night.
Weeks go by and the object is undisturbed.
One night, a figure is captured disturbing the object,
and the camera captures a photo and uploads it
to an S3 bucket that's configured to trigger
a Lambda function that sends
an SNS notification to the owner of the object with the image attached.
That's it. That's the serverless app.
I know that was a simple example,
but the comparison I would like to make
here is that in comparison to running the application on
a server for weeks without any action and paying for all that idle compute,
you can run a simple serverless function and pay literally almost nothing for a simpler,
faster, and less complicated job.
Now, we aren't yet at the point where
your average company is running serverless applications in production.
As we've discussed, most of them are taking a tentative step
towards running production applications on EC2 instances.
But some of the most technologically advanced companies like Netflix, Blackboard,
Conde Nast, and The New York Times,
certainly are running serverless applications to great success.
I say that to say,
that unless you're aiming to work for a large multinational tech company,
or cloud consulting agency,
don't expect to see too many enterprise level serverless applications for awhile.
It's coming, but it will take some time and
some baby steps for companies to train, engineer, and test.
The good thing is, when the time comes,
you'll be on your way to flexing your expertise in this new area of computing.